fix #563 e.g. clarify current status of workshops and future plans (#566)
coderefinery/coderefinery.org: content/get-involved.md

template = "page-with-toc.html"
+++

CodeRefinery has two main activities: 
- maintain and further develop the CodeRefinery **open source project** to produce lesson material openly and collaboratively;

> - deliver workshops.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- deliver trainings, mainly by workshops with hands-on exercises and type-along sessions.  
```

Anyone may contribute to the CodeRefinery open source project. 

From 2016-10-01 to 2021-10-31, CodeRefinery received funding from [NeIC](https://neic.no/) and delivered a large number of face to face and online workshops to the Nordic Community.

CodeRefinery is always looking for both people and institutions that can
promote the FAIRness of software management and development practice. There are
many ways that you can get involved:

- if you are a learner, helper or instructor, you can check out our
[manuals](https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/), in particular the [about
us](https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/the-project/) and
[contributing](https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/contributing/) pages, for
more about us.
- if you are an institution, a research group or a company, you can check out our [Training hubs](https://coderefinery.org/about/hubs/) section to learn how to support us and become a Member organization.

---

### Host a workshop

There are different ways to organize and deliver workshops using partly or entirely our training material. You can:

> - Request the support of the CodeRefinery Team to organize a CodeRefinery or Carpentries workshop;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Request the support of the CodeRefinery Team to organize a CodeRefinery workshop;
```

Reviewer: Given the fact that it is unclear if the CodeRefinery would continue its organization membership of the Carpentries, as well as the fact that the Carpentries has its guidelines regarding organizing/requesting workshops and they can be anytime updated, I am not sure how much we should cover about the Carpentries workshop. Maybe it is enough to give a pointer to the Carpentries website for further and latest information?

Author: Yes. It makes sense only if CodeRefinery continues its organization membership of the Carpentries. We haven't really discussed it. It may not be necessary e.g. we can also organize more comprehensive CodeRefinery Instructor Training to get more CodeRefinery Instructors.

> - Register a self-organized CodeRefinery or Carpentries workshop;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Register a self-organized CodeRefinery workshop;
```

> - Register a self-organized workshop using CodeRefinery or Carpentries lessons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Register a self-organized workshop using CodeRefinery lessons.
```

The cost depends on the type of workshop and the membership tier your institution has subscribed. For more information, check our [Training Hubs](https://coderefinery.org/about/hubs/) section.

#### CodeRefinery workshops with support of the CodeRefinery Team

> #### Self-organized CodeRefinery or Carpentries workshop

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Self-organized CodeRefinery workshop
```

In the sections below, we provide you with more detailed information on each CodeRefinery or Carpentries type of self-organized workshop.

##### Self-organized Carpentries workshop

The requirements for a self-organized Carpentries workshop can be found [here](https://carpentries.org/workshops/#workshop-core) on the Carpentries website.

> There is **no administrative fee** due to the Carpentries or CodeRefinery for running a self-organized Carpentries workshop. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is **no administrative fee** to run a self-organized Carpentries workshop. 
```

> To add your Carpentries workshop both to [the Carpentries upcoming workshops](https://carpentries.org/upcoming_workshops/) and [CodeRefinery upcoming workshops](https://coderefinery.org/workshops/upcoming/), get in touch with us on [https://coderefinery.zulipchat.com](https://coderefinery.zulipchat.com) in #request-workshops stream. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add your Carpentries workshop in the list of upcoming workshops in the [CodeRefinery's "upcoming workshops" page](https://coderefinery.org/workshops/upcoming/), get in touch with us on [https://coderefinery.zulipchat.com](https://coderefinery.zulipchat.com) in #request-workshops stream. To add your workshop in [the Carpentries upcoming workshops](https://carpentries.org/upcoming_workshops/) (and if applicable, each Carpentry's upcoming workshops for Software, Data or Library Carpentry), choose "yes" to the question "Would you like to have this workshop listed on our websites?" in [the registration form submitted to the Carpentries](https://amy.carpentries.org/forms/self-organised/). 
```

##### Self-organized CodeRefinery workshop

The requirements for a self-organized CodeRefinery workshop are:
- Teach at least three CodeRefinery lessons (we recommend one from the section **For yourself and larger**, one from **For your group and larger** and one from **For the community**);
- Have at least one certified Carpentry or CodeRefinery instructor;
- Use CodeRefinery surveys to get evaluations and to help us collect feedback from the learners;

> - Abide by [The Carpentries Code of Conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Abide by [CodeRefinery's Code of Conduct](https://coderefinery.org/about/code-of-conduct/);
```

Author: Thanks! I forgot we already had our Code of Conduct!

> There is **no administrative fee** due to CodeRefinery for running a self-organized Carpentries workshop. 

Reviewer: Does this mean, 
```suggestion
There is **no administrative fee** to run a self-organized CodeRefinery workshop. 
```
?

If your workshop fulfill the requirements detailed above, it can be listed as a "self-organized CodeRefinery workshop" on our website at [Workshops/events](https://coderefinery.org/workshops/upcoming/) under **self-organized CodeRefinery workshops**. Please get in touch with us on  [https://coderefinery.zulipchat.com](https://coderefinery.zulipchat.com) in #request-workshops stream to add it on our website.

> #### Self-organized workshop using CodeRefinery lessons

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Self-organized workshop or any training activity using CodeRefinery lessons
```

> There is **no administrative fee** due to CodeRefinery for running a self-organized workshop using CodeRefinery lessons. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

All CodeRefinery and The Carpentries training material are licensed under [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/), so you can teach this material yourself and mix and match with any other material.

> However, if you wish your workshop to be listed on our website, get in touch with us on [https://coderefinery.zulipchat.com](https://coderefinery.zulipchat.com) in #request-workshops stream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, we would love to know when CodeRefinery lesson material is used for any type of training, including workshops, credited/non-credited courses, or other types of learning events! Please let us know on [https://coderefinery.zulipchat.com](https://coderefinery.zulipchat.com) in #request-workshops stream, as well as whether or not you wish your event to be listed in our website, under **self-organized workshops or training activities using CodeRefinery lesson material**.
```

> Your workshop will be listed on our website at [Workshops/events](https://coderefinery.org/workshops/upcoming/) under **self-organized workshops using CodeRefinery training material**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
